Docker is great for microservices architecture, lift-and-shift applications from on-premises to AWS cloud.
Amazon ECR provides both private repositories and public repositories called ECR public gallery (https://gallery.ecr.aws/).
VMs: Infrastructure -> Host OS -> Hypervisor -> Guest OS(VM)
Container -> Infrastructure -> Host OS -> Hypervisor -> Guest OS(VM) -> Docker Daemon -> Container

# Amazon Elastic Container Service
An ECS cluster is a logical grouping of compute resources (like EC2 instances or Fargate) that acts as a foundation for running 
containerized applications. An ECS task is the smallest executable unit in a cluster, representing one or more containers running 
together based on a task definition.

EC2 launch type
The user provisions and maintains the EC2 instances. The EC2 instances are created in advance. Each EC2 instance must run ECS agent 
to register in the ECS cluster. After registering Amazon takes care of starting and stopping containers.

EC2 Instance profile
It is used only for EC2 launch type only, where the ECS agents make use of it to call APIs of the ECS service.

Fargate launch type
Serverless solution to deploy docker containers without the need to manage infrastructure. The compute resources to be allocated 
are decided on what is provided in the ECS task. To scale, increasing the number of tasks is the standard method. Defining multiple
containers within the same task isnt scaling, as resources are defined at the task level and all containers inside that one task must 
share that single pool of resources. If 2 containers are defined, it doesnt mean fargate allocates 2x resources of what is defined in the task.

ECS Task role 
This is valid for both EC2 and fargate launch type. Each task can have its specific role. Task role is defined in the task definition

Load Balancer Integrations
ALB supports and works for most of the use cases
NLB is recommended for high throughput/high performance or to pair with AWS Private Link
Classic LB does not support advance features like fargate

Data volumnes
Elastic File System can be mounted to ECS tasks and works for both EC2 and fargate launch type. This enables tasks running in any AZ share
the same data in EFS. This provides persistent multi-AZ shared storage for containers
Note - Amazon S3 cannot be mounted as a file system for ECS tasks